# Technological

Echo chambers which foster hostility towards women like the incel community; a misogynist like Andrew Tate becoming an online celebrity through exploiting the algorithms of various social media platforms and other forms of hate speech on the internet have become the sad reality of how the digital process has struggled with promoting inclusiveness rather than hate.
From an intersectional feminist perspective, the recent advances in technology rarely had a net positive impact on promoting tolerance and equality within our society. The online world so many people embrace is too important to continue this trend. Therefore, people promoting tolerance towards women, people of color and the LGBTQIA+ community have worked towards this goal. 
One of these projects is QueerOS: A User’s Manual. It is a “scholarly and political project” that provides the concept for a yet to be executed queer operating system, which would be designed to provide a digital experience in accordance with values of inclusiveness and tolerance. In this endeavor the authors have drawn inspiration from a variety of scholars, to address a lack of trans, queer and racial analysis in humanities digital architecture. 
One of QueerOS’s key principles is the concept of consent. Whereas common operating systems work with extensive and complicated terms and services that are being read by only a small fraction of their users, QueerOS demonstrates more respect towards them and their data. A potential interface is envisioned to be as intuitive as possible. Thereby naturalizing the experience and abolishing the divide between user and medium to provide an immersive natural flow of use. The users would be able to choose from a as extensive as possible variety of different aesthetics, pseudonyms, and avatars. This is intended to give users the freedom of expression to display their diverse and unique traits as accurately as possible. The Kernel is the part of the operating system that translates user requests into processing for the operating system. It is a central part of any system. In contrast to conventional operating systems, in which the kernel would be inaccessible for the users QueerOS would allow users to interact with the kernel. Thereby the user’s identity can change the operating system. The advantage of this is the unique identity such an approach would grant the operating system. However, it would also lead the operating system to be prone to crashes. The authors seem to welcome this deviation from the norm as a stance against the efficiency mindset and need for optimization within a capitalistic society. Relying on the same principle, the memory of QueerOS is also shaped by the users. Other memories gather as much marketable data as possible, while QueerOS opts to give users the opportunity to imprint their identity in it. Meaning the memory is not just a simple tool for functionality and profitability, but rather the cultural heritage of the operating system. The applications run by QueerOS follow four principles. They are available through all different platforms, regions and devices, to provide the utmost user flexibility.  They are transparent for the users. They are (like the memory and kernel) less concerned with their functionality and reliability then conventional apps. Lastly the “app store” would not be financially motivated to allow a free exchange of ideas. These principles are supposed to ensure that the applications run on the operating system function in accordance with its core values. Ensuring accessibility is again mentioned (this time concerning the entire operating system) by the authors in their thoughts concerning the I/O. To allow as many voices as possible to be heard they aim for QueerOS to be available on as many devices as possible. 
An operating system designed with the QueerOS would be unconventional to say the least. At almost every key position in the system it deviates from the norm. This in itself is already a representation of the author's approach to diversity. It would however most likely not be welcomed by all. The difference between QueerOS and conventional operating systems would require a willingness to relearn many basics of interactions with an operating system. Additionally factors like the unstable kernel would add factors of uncertainty and unreliability. One could argue that those factors are impractical. However, this thought already demonstrates the emphasis on efficiency that a neo liberal, capitalistic society produces in its citizens. QueerOS attempts to stand against that instinct of efficiency implanted in us. But these unconventional features could act as a deterrent for some people to use the QueerOS.
Considering the proposed ideas, a QueerOS would be supposed to integrate, one can safely say that realizing such an operating system would be an ambitious task. However, the probability of such a manual becoming an actual operating system should not be considered its measurement of success. If a newly designed operating system would only implement a few of these proposed ideas, it would already be superior to common operating systems. Alternatively, this manual could (especially with public support) serve as an inspiration for the update of existing operating systems, thereby improving them regarding inclusiveness, data safety and freedom of expression. For this reason, the ideas provided and gathered within this user’s manual are valuable regardless of whether or not all of them are realized within one single operating system.
Another text concerning itself with the relation of technological advances and Xenofeminism is “Glitch Feminism” by Legacy Russel. Russel claims the Internet has strayed far from the promised digital utopia, among other reasons because of the naivete concerning online data mining has been cleared up to reveal the profit oriented digital surveillance space we inhabit.
Still, the digital space is still an important platform for queer people to share experiences and express themselves. A mostly forgotten factor by critics that claim the internet means people are more connected yet more alienated than before using it. These people appear oblivious to the safe spaces for marginalized groups that the online community provides and highlights a white/straight/cis perspective. Russel also provides examples for people belonging to marginalized groups gaining voices through the internet, demonstrating that the digital space can not only be a healing place of shared experiences, but also a transformative place of mobilizing change within societies. Russels analysis of the internet focuses on the positive aspects of it and criticizes the demonization of it. While she makes a valid point one must also refrain from idealizing the internet. Digital Kinship may be better than nothing but cannot entirely replace human interaction. Staying within your personal online communities  fosters echo chambers. Those are points of criticism one could draw when analyzing Glitch Feminism. Both would miss the point of the text. Digital kinship promises a level of understanding not everyone has access to irl and doesn’t mean irl experiences are discouraged or hindered. Similarly, nobody should expect anyone to solve societal issues when searching for a safe space. Echo chambers and safe spaces are not the same. Reinforcing your own beliefs is different from sharing experiences. Nobody requires everyone to exclusively stay within their communities. Sharing of worldviews thereby breaking echo chambers, while also having safe spaces are not mutually exclusive, thus rendering this criticism pointless.
Both texts present different approaches to the impact of technological advances on society. But how can those theories be used to enhance an inclusive culture within the internet?
QueerOS argues that if the frame for a digital experience is already within a neoliberal, white, straight, and cis perspective, then that translates directly into the experience itself. Therefore, the manual thrives to change that. However as of now this is more of an intellectual thought experiment. While valid in theory the propositions are not realistically going to be implemented or used by a substantial amount of people. Additionally, people who would be willing to use an operating system like this will likely already have informed themselves about concepts such as intersectional feminism. Meaning that as of now the transformative power of these ideas is limited. On the other hand, the use of the internet as a safe space to share experiences for the queer community has more of a transformative power. Through learning about others having similar experiences young people who were not properly prepared by their real life environment can gain understanding and confidence regarding their identity, gender identity, place within the spectrum of sexual orientation or the struggles faced by marginalized groups within society. These safe spaces can, as highlighted in Glitch Feminism, be an important catalyst for positive change. Another important function of the digital space is the connectivity it provides to almost every member of society. While there has been a huge amount of compartmentalization within the internet through echo chambers, you can still very easily reach people with different world views and values online. Thus, another possibility of the internet is to sensitize people who have not dealt with topics such as intersectional feminism or queer theory to the issues and discrimination faced by marginalized groups. 
One interesting example on how these people might be reached could be made by looking at the development of memes, as the author of GlitchFemenism recognizes by including them in her publication. Platforms promoting short content like Instagram or TicTok have become a staple in most people's online experience. By recognizing, using and encouraging the shortening of people's attention spans they have made sure to stay one of the most relevant means of online communication for years now. Memes have become the digital artform of the younger generations, a subculture with billions of eyes on it. No world changing political event can transpire without a multitude of funny, grotesque and sometimes distasteful memes being shared about it shortly after. But why are those silly internet trends a great way to sensitive young people previously indifferent or uninformed on issues of inclusiveness? Because they are the prevalent form of online humor and reach almost every online community, even those, who usually would not care about its message. Sadly, once somebody finds something funny, they are much more likely to agree with any point made. Surprisingly, even politically conservative people are more likely than usual to recognize any issue highlighted by a well-made meme. Is it sad that very serious issues of discrimination on a societal level have to be highlighted by something as informal as memes to gain higher recognition among younger generations? Yes, but that fact should not deter from the opportunity to create a society more conscious of these issues.  
Right-winged groups within Germany have already recognized the potential of these forms of communication as a tool to reach a wider audience. The AfD has by far the highest percentage out of all major German parties of their representatives on TicToc and there is a flood of right-winged memes online. Meaning that if the people advocating inclusiveness confine themselves to well-reasoned, but comparatively long texts, they are forfeiting the political identity, the most vital digital form of culture for younger generations to those who wish to perpetuate and enhance cycles of discrimination.
In conclusion, the further technological immersion of society includes dangers for the interests of marginalized communities. It does however also hold potential. The potential for shared experiences that lead to those people, who were let down by their social environment to discover new things about them and in turn help others. The potential for operating systems that break the norms, making us question those very norms. And the potential to reach and sensitize people on issues of inclusiveness furthering a culture of respect and understanding online. If these potentials outweigh the dangers, it is going to be determined by how well they are utilized.
